# Final Project

Early in the semester we will create groups of classmates (this group is the same as your module group). Each group will work on a project throughout the semester.  You can think of the group project as a consulting project where an outside company or organization is funding the work. Of course, in reality you will not be paid for your work and you may not be working with some outside organization, but for purposes of this assignment you should act as if you were. 

Groups will choose a collection of people in a particular context (e.g., call center operators, Starbuck’s regulars, iPhone or Facebook users, janitors,…). They need to be people that you will have easy access to, since you will be “studying” them using some of the methods we will discuss in class (e.g., interviews, focus groups, user studies,…). You will study their work (or play) practices in order to understand some of their underlying information needs, and then come up with some recommendations on how to better meet those needs. 

The first assignment you will have as a group is to choose a set of users to study. Next, you will create a proposal that will outline what you plan on doing, what the purpose of your study will be, and how you will accomplish your goals. After doing the work, you will write up a report based on your findings. It will include an introduction, brief literature review, purpose of the study, description of what you did (i.e., data collection and analysis methods), findings, recommendations, and conclusions. 

**Potential deliverables for this project include one of the options below: **

• A white paper or case study of approximately 2000-3000 words plus references and figures.
• An educational web site that could be used as a resource to educate people about why a topic is problematic or significant. The text component is not as long as a white paper but should be balanced with the layout and design of the website, focusing on a wide public audience and ensuring content is accessible and easy to understand. If I pulled out the text and ran a word count, it should be detailed (length: 2000+ words), include both depth and breadth of topic coverage, and must include references (using a numbered format in text, e.g., [1][2] and a separate references page on the site.
• An explainer-style video (~5-8 minutes length for final video cut) that gives a highly visual, succinct overview of the topic. I would only suggest doing this if you have video editing experience because my expectations of the quality will be high. A short report (1000-1500 words) should accompany the video and provide an overview on the topic (including references). 
